
1)Tell me about yourself?

Hello my name is shubham thakur i am basically from pune from past 2 yr i am working with yash technologies as a backend java developer.The technology that i use there while working as a 
backend java developer are core java ,spring ,spring boot, hibernate and microservices architecture and in database i am using mysql and also started learning mongodb as well.
c
I am highly motivated and commited person.and I would love to bring in my 2 year of experiance and 
expertise to help you meet the company requirements.


2)Why do you want to leave your current organization?
I've had a valuable experience working at my current organization, and I've learned a lot during my 
time there. However, after careful consideration, I believe it's time for me to explore new opportunities 
and take the next step in my career.

3)what would you say is your greatest strength?
My greatest strength is my ability to think analytically.i'm able to identify potential issues and come 
up with efficient solution quickly.i'm also great at organizing and planning ,which allows me to stay on
 top of tasks and meet tight deadlines.

4)whats malkes you uniquely qualified for this position?
I have a combination of experiance working with clients and technical skills that makes me perfect fit for this role. I am highly 
organized.which i believe are essential for this role.Additionally,
my previous experiance in a similar role has allowed me to developed a strong understanding of the 
industry and how to effectively navigate it.

4)why do you want to work for us?
I believe that working in your company would give me the opportunity to refine my skills, learn from 
experienced professionals, and contribute to delivering exceptional experiences to customers. 
I am excited about the possibility of being part of a team that consistently strives for excellence.

5)HAve you applied for any other job?
yes,I have submitted application to few other companies .However ,this role stand out to me because of its
 alignemnt with my skills and long term carrer goal.
